PETE LEPAGE: Chrome 73 makes
creating portable content
easier with signed
HTTP exchanges.
Dynamically changing
the styles becomes
way easier with
constructable style sheets.
And my favorite, support
for progressive web apps
is now available on Mac,
bringing support for PWAs
to all desktop and
mobile platforms,
making it easy to create
installable apps delivered
through the web.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 73.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Progressive web apps provide
an installable, app-like
experience built and delivered
directly via the web.
In Chrome 73, we've
added support for Mac OS,
bringing support for
progressive web apps
to all desktop platforms--
Mac, Windows, Chrome
OS, and Linux--
as well as mobile, simplifying
the web app development
process.
A progressive web app
is fast and reliably so,
always loading and
performing at the same speed,
regardless of the
network connection.
They provide rich, engaging
experiences via the modern web
and take advantages of the full
capabilities of the device.
Users can install your PWA
from Chrome's context menu,
or you can directly promote the
installation experience using
the beforeinstallprompt event.
Once installed, a PWA
integrates with the OS
to behave just like
a native application.
Users find and launch
them from the same place
as their other apps.
They run in their own window.
They appear in
the task switcher.
Their icons can show
notifications and badging
and so on.
We want to close the capability
gap between web and native
to provide a solid foundation
for modern applications
delivered on the web.
We're working to add things like
new web platform capabilities
that give you access to things
like File System, WakeLock,
and more, adding an ambient
badge to the address bar
to let users know that
your PWA can be installed,
policy installation for
enterprises, and plenty more.
If you're already building a
mobile progressive web app,
a desktop PWA is no different.
In fact, if you've
used responsive design,
you're likely good
to go already.
Your single code base will
work across desktop and mobile.
If you're just
starting out with PWAs,
you'll be surprised at how
easy it is to create them.
Just add a manifest, an icon,
a boilerplate service worker,
and iterate from there.
Check out the post linked below
for more details and to see
some of my favorite PWAs.
Signed HTTP exchanges,
part of a new emerging
technology called webpackages,
is now available in Chrome 73.
A signed HTTP exchange
makes it possible to create
portable content that can be
delivered by other parties,
but--
and this is the key aspect--
retain the integrity
and attribution
of the original site.
This decouples the
origin of the content
from the server
that delivers it.
But because it's signed,
it's like it's being
delivered from your server.
When the browser loads
this Signed Exchange,
it can safely show your
URL in the address bar
because the signature
in the exchange
indicates the content originally
came from your origin.
Signed HTTP exchanges enables
faster content delivery
for users, making it possible
to get the benefits of a CDN
without having to cede
control of your certificate's
private key.
The AMP Team is planning to use
signed HTTP exchanges on Google
Search result pages
to improve AMP URLs
and speed up clicks
on search results.
Check out Kenyuko's
post for more details
on how to get started.
Constructable style
sheets, new in Chrome 73,
give us a new way to
create and distribute
reusable styles, which is
particularly important when
using Shadow DOM.
It's always been
possible to create
style sheets using JavaScript.
Create a style element using
document.createElement.
Then access its sheet
property to obtain a reference
to the underlying CSS
style sheet instance.
Then set the style.
Using this method tends to
lead to style sheet bloat.
Each time you want to apply
a sheet to a DOM tree,
it needs to be copied.
Even worse, it causes a
flash of unstyled content.
Constructable style
sheets make it
possible to define and
prepare shared CSS styles,
then apply those styles
to multiple shadow
routes or the DOM easily,
and without duplication.
Updates to a shared CSS style
sheet are applied to all routes
where it's been adopted
and adopting a style sheet
is fast and synchronous once
the sheet's been loaded.
Getting started is simple.
Create a new instance
of the CSS style sheet.
Then use either replace
or replace.sync to update
the style sheet rules.
Check out Jason Miller's post
for more details and code
samples.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 73
for developers.
Of course, there's plenty more.
matchALL is a new regular
expression matching
method on the string prototype
and returns an array containing
the complete list of matches.
The link element now supports
imagesrcset and imagesizes
properties to correspond to
srcset and sizes attributes
of HTML image elements.
Blink's shadow blur
radius implementation
now matches Firefox and Safari.
And dark mode is now
supported on Mac,
and Windows Support
is on the way.
All the details,
including docs and specs,
are in the updates post
linked in the description.
Be sure to check out the latest
Chrome DevTools video to learn
what's new in DevTools.
Then click the Subscribe
button, and you'll
get an email notification
whenever we launch a new video.
I'm Pete LePage, and as soon
as Chrome 74 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.
[MUSIC PLAYING]